 **Module 2:
Inuit Ublumi mixed with basic R2 Unit**


*Macro*


  In order to “remix” or transform data and models, a number of actions must be made to divorce it from its original context, and create an entirely new one in which it can operate and express something original or at least different. In the February 5th lecture on remixing, the idea of “good” and “bad” remixing was proposed. Something which pushes a different agenda, or uses chosen data to misrepresent certain facts or data, is often considered “bad” because of its destructive nature. With this in mind, I have decided to completely change the narrative which had me so enthralled in the piece in the first place, and force it into a conversation which was absolutely present, but not nearly the most important part of the original conversation. 

  The first idea to be explored was with sonification of the raw data in the model. The process uses algorithms to assign values to the data, and then place those values on an instrument or sound. The idea I was using with this was to change the reflective and serious tone of the poem used in the statue, along with its code, to create an aggressive or perhaps cheerful song that would be used to further a different narrative over the state of the Inuit Peoples and their relationship with the Capital. However, the websites I attempted to use (musicalgorithms.org and SoundData on thebestschools.org) either did not suit my goal, or did not accept the inputted data, either by its own programming, or by my incorrect input.

  The next possibility, which I eventually settled on, was mixing the current model with one made by someone else, as a way to skew the narrative of the original physical artefact. Sketchfab, which I was already using, as well as Free3D.com, provided a decent platform for searching through downloadable models which could push my agenda. The first option was to undermine the seriousness and story that the piece is trying to convey by mixing it with something happy and distracting, pushing a narrative that all is fine with the Inuit, and that the efforts to preserve culture with the new technology and politics are, despite the poem, going just fine. The other option was to create a more negative narrative, focussing more on the conflicts past, since colonization, and the sombre nature of the poem. By doing so, I could shift the focus away from the evolution and internal issues of the society, and make it a symbol of resistence against the Canadian government, with whom the original artist had a great relationship. I decided to move on this idea; creating a narrative on the consequences of colonialism and the complex and uncertain nature of the Inuit’s place in the modern world. 

  I searched for African masks to add to the statue’s faces, but the masks on the websites I used either came untextured or would not interact well with the statue model. So, I extended the search to the much wider theme of imperialism. This search contained roughly the same actors and models, but extended beyond colonialism and even New Imperialism, to encompass wider movements and events in history. Many objects came forward, though again many would not work. Eventually, I decided to expand the search once again to the most topical example of imperialism that I could think of: Star Wars. This topic would allow me to portray the technological aspect I wanted: the cultural shift in values, the differences of power, and seemingly unlimited narratives depending on how I chose to spin it, without providing an easily-recognizable figure that would influence me, instead of the other way around.
  
  The final consideration was given to an R2D2 model, which I painted myself, and was used as a platform or pedestal to hold up the statue. Issues with Meshmixer and other programs forced me to return to Blender as a way to mix the model, though the texturing was still an issue, there are arguments that could be made for the glitch and how it has changed the model to represent how fractured and distant the original point has become, or how becoming a minority group has "whitewashed" their culture and made it largely unrecognizable. 
  
  Because of this, I would think that almost all use of the model other than to further my own supposed comment on colonialism and imperialism, and the pessimistic outlook for the future of the Inuit has been lost. Sustainability is not something that concerns this argument, and so I highly doubt that the mixing of these two models will ever amount to anything beyond the scope I have made for it.



*Micro*

  I chose to use my process notes to create a list-form explaination of the steps I was taking, as well as the results afterwards. They can be found under the "process notes" folder, or by following this link: https://github.com/rileyweymann/Notebook/blob/master/process-notes/notes.md

  The main reference for the idea I used came from the work by Daniken discussed on February 5th, which illustrated his belief that ancient civilizations had contact with and help from aliens. He cherry-picked his facts and used the pieces he found as a way to create a new narrative than how they were portrayed in other contexts. Individually they meant very little to him, but as a whole, when displayed together, they made a compelling case for the presence of extraterrestrial life on Earth. 
  
  We know this to be more than likely false, however the way he used his position to control discussion and facts was so interesting that I felt it needed to be explored. The tone of my project from the first module into the second has changed completely – and some would say it is worse off for it. But that is a facet of digital history. The ability to change minds and alter facts is dangerous when it is so easy to compile and showcase.
  
  Also taken as inspiration was Gunkel's work in *Rethinking the Digital Remix: Mash‐ups and the Metaphysics of Sound Recording,* especially in the quote "...in either case, whether the spin is negative or positive, the mash‐up is ultimately associated with that strange apocalyptic tone that is all‐too‐often attributed to postmodernism," which inspired me to look more at the technological side of the "conflict" my narrative is describing. Postmodernism is all over digital history, and it is most present in the passion people have to use the technology, despite its or their limitations, and the deterioration or changing of meaning through transformations and perversions. It is also present in the reading by Carter, though he goes about expressing this a little more distantly, instead labelling it as the "fetishization of technology" (Carter, 2017) and detailing the areas which he believes its appropriation is endangering. 
  
  There is plenty of uncertainty in the piece, and I acknowledge that without the paradata and biography explaining the point of the piece, it is difficult to glean any real meaning from it. It could be seen as simply a mess. It could be looked at as a way to compare periods of North American art and how it influences and is influenced by culture, if one so chooses to look at it this way. But for the purposes of this experiment of mine, which parallels the physical artefact, the written piece is just as important as the created. The statue is partnered with a poem by the author, and it should be so that my piece should have a complimentary written partner to explain the narrative as well. Is that not what Daniken did? Displayed the collection of his findings, then giving them life and purpose through an explanation which he chose to represent his values and opinions? This is the gift and cure we bear when we make anything to a purpose.
