  The original *Inuit Ublumi* statue holds significance for its commentary on the evolution of a post-colonial society and its personal relationship with its governing body. The perception by the indigenous community, that it represents a measure of trust and understanding, as well as a history of involved political participation by the territory, is in contention with other perspectives, as well as the execution of its representation by the Canadian History Museum. 
  
  Its creator has used the medium to express his view on the shifting values of the Inuit peoples, and as well his apparent sadness with their distance from traditional values, as expressed in the poem in the "Inuit Ublumi" section of the biography. 
  
  
  R2D2, on the other hand, is a creation of George Lucas for the Star Wars films. His history is described on StarWars.com as follows:
  
*"A resourceful astromech droid, R2-D2 served Padmé Amidala, Anakin Skywalker and Luke Skywalker in turn, showing great bravery in rescuing his masters and their friends from many perils. A skilled starship mechanic and fighter pilot's assistant, he formed an unlikely but enduring friendship with the fussy protocol droid C-3PO."*

  He is a key point in the major storylines of the cinematic universe, and is linked to the major themes within. The Empire is the main antagonist in the original series, and the opposition to those oppressive forces is what drives the story along. Imperialism is something that the Inuit know all too well, and it is a loose tie to the model. The narrative of the piece shifts from the forward movement of the peoples, or their society's evolution, and the original author's intent and forgotten identity, to one where the oppression of the North and the regressive perspective is more highlighted. 
  
  In an effort to explore the power of digital history as a tool for shaping perspectives and controlling information, arguments, and conversation, I tried to create an almost entirely ambiguous model with a complex narrative which mirrors and distorts the original. The idea is to taake the theme of imperialism and colonialism, which are background elements of the original, and make them overshadow the point the artist is trying to make with the piece. The focus on society and the future of the people are replaced by a regressive argument that focuses instead on the conflicts of the past and the negative consequences of the present. It does so by using the R2D2 as a base or podium for the piece. It is purposefully linked to the ide of "the Empire," the antagonists of the first Star Wars movies, and a clear imperial power. The podium also represents the focus on technology and the differences in cultures between the aboriginal and white populations, and how influential the power of these more mainstream medias is, to make it give the illusion of supporting the ideals of the native population, and yet overshadow it in size, recognition, and, through a glitch in transferring the file, colour. The point of the original statue is almost completely eclipsed by the new model, and the poem which accompanied the original has been transformed into this paragraph; instructing the reader on how the piece should be viewed and offering insight into the argument that its creator believes is at the centre of its creation.
  
  A more detailed picture of how I got to this point can be found in the paradata for module 2 here: https://github.com/rileyweymann/Notebook/blob/master/paradata/paradata-Module2.md
