  Imaginary Soundscape uses its AI to identify subjects within a photograph, and then matches them to a soundbite which corresponds with its perceived identity. As a historian, this tool provides opportunities to bring the digital into the real world, and as well to give insight into the hidden narratives or possible perceptions of a created thing. The sound is taken from any number of situations, or it seems that occasionally they may be generated by the AI or an external program. 
  
  In the Object Files folder, there are 15 links to the images I used. These are separated into the 6 faces of the statue, the statue model as a whole, the actual statue in the museum, the remixed Module 2 model, and the poem which accompanied the original. The idea here is to use different backgrounds, lighting, and subjects to see how the software reacts. 
  
Faces
  
  In the first three faces, there is a sort of tribal chanting that plays along with the image. I believe that it is recognizing the style of the art, especially in the structure of the faces and lines involved. 
  
  The fourth face, however, is given the slow, somber, and broken speech of a dying speaker inside of a stuffed animal. It is singing "We wish You a Merry Christmas" in the most creepy and concerning tone imaginable. The reason for this is difficult to place.
  
  The fifth is difficult to place, though is obviously busy and likely some kind of workplace. Likely either a busy supermarket of perhaps a factory. Then the sixth is simply the buzz of an industrial machine. These last two are shaded in the most blue light, so I can see where industry and work would be brought in.
  
Whole Model

  Interestingly, almost all of the photos of the model have something to do with bells. It does have the rough shape of one, and the light reflects off of it in a way which might be seen as metallic. The first is a music box, perhaps because of the round base, the second is wind chimes, perhaps becasue of the vertical arms resembling chimes, and the fourth is a broken German poem with a bell tower in the background. The German poem interested me the most, as it seems to be about some kind of object being gifted to or by a city. It may be recognizing that it is a work of art, even if it thinks it is German for some reason.
  
  The third is the only one which does not fit, as it plays a generated poem about lost or rebuffed love. This may be because the two figures in the frame are facing away from each other, but I am not sure if I would give it that much credit.
  
Actual Statue

  The two photos chosen for this section gave interesting results. The first was paired with Indian music, perhaps recognizing that it was a statue, just not which culture it was. The second is just the sound of a busy space, so perhaps it recognized that it was a museum.
  
The Remix

  I think this is the most understandable connection, as both the images and the sounds are nonsense. The soundscape inludes a poem about a street and tofu, as well as the second soundbite, which is solely comprised of a jaw harp, which is played over and over again.
  
The Poem

  I decided to include the original poem to see if the software would pick up any of the words. It responded with its own poem about a phoenix and rebirth, which could be related to the original if one were to make the stretch required, but not if the reader or listener were sensible. It likely just saw the text and then matched it to another series of text.
